[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
john kay and rachel burden hello there
our headlines this morning
a shot in the arm for the prime minister
as he urges
other people to take up the vaccine it
was very good
very quick and you know what i'm going
to say i cannot recommend it
too highly but europe braces for a third
wave of infections with fresh lockdowns
in parts of france
and poland good morning the six nations
grand slam
beckons for wales if they can win in
france tonight roared on by their
captain adam wynn jones who's been
dubbed superman by the french
reporting for duty
james bond 007 back on duty as stars
joined forces to raise money
for red nose day and it's the spring
equinox today but whilst many visibly
rather cloudy and cool yet again
it's the turn of northeast england to
enjoy a bit of spring warmth
i'll have all the details later
good morning it's saturday the 20th of
march our top story today the prime
minister boris johnson has received his
first dose of the coronavirus vaccine as
he urged everyone who's eligible to get
the jab
the rollout has resumed in parts of
europe where new lockdown measures have
been reintroduced in france and poland
as many countries there battle a sharp
rise in infections this report from
simon jones
does contain some flashing images
back at the hospital he credits with
saving his life
boris johnson gets his first dose of the
astrazeneca vaccine at saint thomas's in
london
a personal backing after days of debate
in the eu
about its possible side effects
resulting in europe's medical regulator
saying it is safe i literally did not
feel a thing and so it was very good
uh very quick and you know what i'm
gonna say i cannot recommend it
too highly everybody when you do get
your
notification to go for a jab please go
and get it it is
the best thing for you best thing for
your family and for everybody else
around half the uk's adult population
has now been given a first dose
but the same can't be said for much of
the eu with a faltering vaccine program
due to delayed deliveries and vaccine
skepticism
leading to fears of a third wave in
france
new lockdown restrictions came into
force in paris at midnight
and in germany coronavirus cases are
rising exponentially
with the chancellor warning it's likely
that the country will need to apply an
emergency break
and reimpose lockdown measures just
eight percent of germany's population
has so far received a first dose of
vaccine
and there's a warning the uk can't
afford to be complacent
we've had our first weight we've had our
second wave and there are areas of the
country where
stubbornly staying at a relatively high
level and what will happen later in the
years the infections will come back
again and if we haven't protected our
vulnerable population by a vaccination
at that stage then we will be back
where we were in march april of last
year
we've got a little card for you to take
away with you to complement the vaccine
programme
the government is funding two new
clinical trials to try to develop
treatments to stop the spread of covid
among the most vulnerable
the message from the prime minister is
that the scientists will help us get
through this
simon jones bbc news
in poland shops hotels cultural and
sporting facilities are closed across
the country for three weeks
as a country faces its highest new daily
rates of covert cases since november
let's go live to warsaw now you can
speak to our correspondent there adam
easton
uh who joins us on breakfast and adam a
really worrying serious situation there
that's right yeah as you were saying
that we've seen new daily cases this
week
not seen since november when the second
wave peaked
and this third wave is yet to peak so
uh the expectation is cases will
continue to rise next week
and that's why we've had this new
partial national lockdown introduced
from today where as you say
shopping centers hotels sporting and
cultural facilities such as cinemas
theaters swimming pools
are now closed for three weeks and the
health minister here adam yajelski has
said that
if the infection rate continues to
accelerate then he will not hesitate
to introduce a full lockdown and that's
because
the capabilities the capacity of the
health system here is already being
tested to
its limits almost three-quarters of
available
beds are occupied and more patients are
on ventilators
now than at any time since the start of
the pandemic and
an extra 8 000 hospital beds are being
readied
in temporary and regular hospitals
throughout the country to deal with
what could be an even worse situation
adam easton thanks for bringing us up to
date on the situation
there in in poland a police officer who
drunkenly assaulted a woman in
warwickshire has avoided prison pc
oliver banfield was given a 14-week
curfew after he grabbed and manhandled
emma homer last july
he's been suspended and faces
disciplinary action the investigating
force has apologized for delays in the
prosecution
there's still no news this morning about
the whereabouts of the bbc journalist
ang tu ya who was
abducted in myanmar on friday the bbc
has asked the military authorities in
the country to locate him and confirm he
is safe
he was taken in the capital
uh by unidentified men in in plain
clothes and we don't know where he's
been taken to we don't
currently know where he is uh he was
with another
journalist from another organization who
was also taken at the same time
and we're really appealing to the
authorities in myanmar to
help us locate on thora and confirm to
us that he's
safe and well a volcano has erupted in
the southwest of iceland after the
region experienced
thousands of small quakes in recent
weeks the eruption which is around 18
miles from the capital reykjavik
caused the night sky to glow bright red
and led to a temporary suspension of
flights
at the country's international airport
what incredible pictures those are
good grief scottish postman
turned singer nathan evans has reached
number one in the uk
charts with his version of a 19th
century sea
shanty
[Music]
traditional seafaring songs then he was
offered a record deal
and gave up the day job yeah we spoke to
him on this
show didn't we and a pot remix of well a
man has reached the top sport
it was originally thought though to have
been written by new zealand whale
whalers in the 1830s and my toes already
inevitably they're going to be going for
the next four hours i just do think
there's something though about the kind
of harmonizing of the whole sea shanty
thing that is deeply comforting yeah
it's true and restful in us it's inside
us
let's have a look at some of this
morning saturday morning papers shall we
the front pages
and let's start with the times today uh
alarm over new wave
is their headline we just came from adam
easton in poland
at the time saying that government
sources here are really worried about
that spike in coronavirus cases
happening not just in public right
across europe
and that it could spark a new covered
wave in the uk as well which could in
turn
mean that holidays could be increasingly
unlikely this
summer and then we've got several papers
including the telegraph carrying this
picture of the prime minister boris
johnson
his sleeve rolled up receiving his first
dose of the coronavirus vaccine
the paper also covers accusations by a
former uk vaccine
are that european leaders were
completely irresponsible
in undermining the oxford astrazeneca
covid vaccine
the guardian's front page this morning
leads with revelations that
saudi royals gulf states and
billionaires are among those who've
claimed millions of pounds
in taxpayer-funded furlough money here
in the uk
and a socially aware makeover for the
board game monopoly is one of the
stories picked up online
toy company hasbro announced it's
updating all 16 community chest cards
which currently feature awards for
winning a beauty contest
or a tax refund in their place will be
more contemporary cards to give
rewards for community service and social
awareness which the games maker thinks
better reflects the post-pandemic world
but i would argue
people particularly when they play
monopoly feel fairly wedded to the old
traditions
there's something quite reasonable it's
like a man isn't it exactly there's
always a family joke about whoever wins
the beauty contest and how unlikely it
is i'd be very sorry to see that going
i thought you could say they were going
to be having furlough payments involved
and things like that that they're going
to bring it we don't want reminders of
all of this
distractions monopoly escapism did you
know the queen had
a puppy well i think we've mentioned
that last week that she was getting up
and she got on this she's got one
this had passed me by um but she has
joined
the hundreds of thousands possibly
millions of people who've got a puppy
over the last 12 months
because do you remember when her last
pets died the story was she wasn't going
to replace her she was too heartbroken
but what's curious about this she got it
from you know one of the common all
standard
pets for sale websites it's not called
that but it's um
you know the place that a lot of people
go to you'd have thought that she might
have a such a specially sourced breeder
but apparently not they just
looked online the nearest retail park
outside windsor yes
a little bit like that and um inevitably
uh it's a cross
so it's not a pure corgi every dog is
across these days it's a cross between
the corgi and a dashand
is that how you say it um and it's
called fergus or one of them is called
fergus in honor of her
war hero uncle the other one is called
mick which is named after one of the
monarch's favorite
beauty spots i wonder if she's having
the same
madness that i am at the moment are you
still chewing everything
and i would suggest my furniture is
slightly less kind of
precious than her she's probably got
more rugs than you have
uh story here in the times this morning
we've got lots of lots of companies at
the moment are sort of
reinventing flavors we've talked about a
well-known uh
yeasty spread on toast which has uh been
adapted
apparently kit kats in japan other
chocolates are available
uh there's now a whiskey flavor but they
have every flavor of kitkat in japan do
you think they always have yeah
how do you know this stuff right i think
people just know that the
people liking your knowledge yeah well
there we go obviously kitkat
wasabi flavor kitkats in japan and
things like that already well apparently
they're really popular two pounds you
can't buy them for
love nor yen at the moment but uh they
are
they're selling out whiskey flavored
kitkats
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news